# CS-465-Full-Stack-Development-I
CS-465-Full Stack Development with MEAN
1. Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full-stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
- The frontend development part of this project consists of a customer-facing website that is built upon Nodejs, Express HTML, and MongoDB technologies. There is also an admin-only access site that is built using single-page application (SPA) technology. The main programing language used to develop the customer-facing section of the web application was JavaScript in comparison to the TypeScript programing language for developing the admin-only single-page application access site.
2. Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
- MongoDB database is an excellent database tool for storing data as key/value pairs. MongoDB database is an essential tool to permanently and successfully store website data such as user information, travel packages, and other necessary data that the website uses for its operation. 
3. How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
- JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format in comparison to JavaScript which is a programming language and one of the core technologies for developing web applications. JSON provides the model for constructing the data structure for storing it in the backend as well as retrieving it for use in the front end. The HTTP requests transmitting between the frontend and backend utilize JSON bodies.
4. Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
- Utilizing handlebars and partials is an excellent example of code refactoring which not only reduces the amount of code and makes it easier to read and debug but also makes future maintenance and adding new capabilities much easier and more intuitive.
5. Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full-stack application.
- The logical approach in developing a good and useful application is to implement and test all the requested functionalities before adding the security layer to ensure that the application is performing as expected and then add the security layer and test the application again to verify that the final product is producing the expected results. Therefore, the HTTP methods of GET (for retrieval), POST (for add), and PUT (for update) of data were implemented, and then RESTful API was used to add the security layer to the application.
6. How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
- Being able to develop a full-stack application on your own is an extremely valuable skill set in the software development section. This course has taught me how to efficiently utilize different software technologies to build a complete full-stack application from start to finish. A better understanding of client/server application development, utilizing model-view-controller (MVC) pattern to develop an application, and implementing RESTful API for securing the application are Some examples of valuable skills that I learned in this course.
